.TH pcilib 7 "@TODAY@" "@VERSION@" "The PCI Utilities"
.SH NAME
pcilib \- a library for accessing PCI devices

.SH DESCRIPTION

The PCI library (also known as \fIpcilib\fP and \fIlibpci\fP) is a portable library
for accessing PCI devices and their configuration space.

.SH ACCESS METHODS

.PP
The library supports a variety of methods to access the configuration space
on different operating systems. By default, the first matching method in this
list is used, but you can specify override the decision (see the \fB-A\fP switch
of \fIlspci\fP).

.TP
.B linux-sysfs
The
.B /sys
filesystem on Linux 2.6 and newer. The standard header of the config space is available
to all users, the rest only to root. Supports extended configuration space, PCI domains,
VPD (from Linux 2.6.26), physical slots (also since Linux 2.6.26) and information on attached
kernel drivers.
.TP
.B linux-proc
The
.B /proc/bus/pci
interface supported by Linux 2.1 and newer. The standard header of the config space is available
to all users, the rest only to root.
.TP
.B intel-conf1
Direct hardware access via Intel configuration mechanism 1. Available on i386 and compatibles
on Linux, Solaris/x86, GNU Hurd, Windows, BeOS and Haiku. Requires root privileges.
.TP
.B intel-conf2
Direct hardware access via Intel configuration mechanism 2. Available on i386 and compatibles
on Linux, Solaris/x86, GNU Hurd, Windows, BeOS and Haiku. Requires root privileges. Warning: This method
is able to address only the first 16 devices on any bus and it seems to be very
unreliable in many cases.
.TP
.B mmio-conf1
Direct hardware access via Intel configuration mechanism 1 via memory-mapped I/O.
Mostly used on non-i386 platforms. Requires root privileges. Warning: This method
needs to be properly configured via the
.B mmio-conf1.addrs
parameter.
.TP
.B mmio-conf1-ext
Direct hardware access via Extended PCIe Intel configuration mechanism 1 via memory-mapped I/O.
Mostly used on non-i386 platforms. Requires root privileges. Warning: This method
needs to be properly configured via the
.B mmio-conf1-ext.addrs
parameter.
.TP
.B ecam
Direct hardware access via PCIe ECAM (Enhanced Configuration Access Mechanism).
Available on all PCIe-compliant hardware. Requires root privileges and access
to physical memory (on Linux systems disabled CONFIG_STRICT_DEVMEM option). On
ACPI compatible systems is ECAM mapping read from the MCFG table specified by the
.B ecam.acpimcfg
parameter. On EFI compatible systems, ACPI MCFG table can be located in physical
memory via EFI system table specified by the
.B ecam.efisystab
parameter. On FreeBSD/NetBSD systems, physical address of ACPI MCFG table can be
located by kenv or sysctl interface when the
.B ecam.bsd
parameter is not disabled. On x86 BIOS compatible systems, ACPI MCFG table can
be located in physical memory by scanning x86 BIOS memory when the
.B ecam.x86bios
parameter is not disabled. Alternatively ECAM mappings can be specified by the
.B ecam.addrs
parameter which takes precedence over ACPI MCFG table. This option is required
on systems without ACPI and also on systems without EFI or x86 BIOS.
.TP
.B fbsd-device
The
.B /dev/pci
device on FreeBSD. Requires root privileges.
.TP
.B aix-device
Access method used on AIX. Requires root privileges.
.TP
.B nbsd-libpci
The
.B /dev/pci0
device on NetBSD accessed using the local libpci library.
.TP
.B obsd-device
The
.B /dev/pci
device on OpenBSD. Requires root privileges.
.TP
.B dump
Read the contents of configuration registers from a file specified in the
.B dump.name
parameter. The format corresponds to the output of \fIlspci\fP \fB-x\fP.
.TP
.B darwin
Access method used on Mac OS X / Darwin. Must be run as root and the system
must have been booted with debug=0x144.
.TP
.B win32-cfgmgr32
Device listing on Windows systems using the Windows Configuration Manager
via cfgmgr32.dll system library. This method does not require any special
Administrator rights or privileges. Configuration Manager provides only basic
information about devices, assigned resources and device tree structure. There
is no access to the PCI configuration space but libpci either tries to use
other access method to access configuration space or it provides read-only
virtual emulation based on information from Configuration Manager. Other
access method can be chosen by the
.B win32.cfgmethod
parameter. By default the first working one is selected (if any). Starting
with Windows 8 (NT 6.2) it is not possible to retrieve resources from 32-bit
application or library on 64-bit system.
.TP
.B win32-sysdbg
Access to the PCI configuration space via NT SysDbg interface on Windows
systems. Process needs to have Debug privilege, which local Administrators
have by default. Not available on 64-bit systems and neither on recent 32-bit
systems. Only devices from the first domain are accessible and only first
256 bytes of the PCI configuration space is accessible via this method.
.TP
.B win32-kldbg
Access to the PCI configuration space via Kernel Local Debugging Driver
kldbgdrv.sys. This driver is not part of the Windows system but is part of
the Microsoft WinDbg tool. It is required to have kldbgdrv.sys driver installed
in the system32 directory or to have windbg.exe or kd.exe binary in PATH.
windbg.exe or kd.exe binary contains embedded kldbgdrv.sys driver which libpci
can automatically unpack and register. Because of embedded driver usage, it is
required that architecture of windbg.exe or kd.exe binary matches the system
architecture, and not the libpci application architecture. Therefore for running
i386 libpci application on AMD64 system, it is required to have AMD64 version of
kldbgdrv.sys driver in the native system32 directory or AMD64 version of
windbg.exe or kd.exe binary in the PATH. i386 versions of these binaries would
not work. win32-kldbg access method compiled for 32-bit applications supports
both 32-bit and also 64-bit OS host systems, therefore i386 libpci application
with win32-kldbg method can access PCI config space also on AMD64 host system.
kldbgdrv.sys driver has some restrictions. Process needs to have Debug privilege
and Windows system has to be booted with Debugging option. Debugging option can
be enabled by calling (takes effect after next boot):
.B bcdedit /debug on
.IP
Download links for WinDbg 6.12.2.633 standalone installer from Microsoft Windows
SDK for Windows 7 and .NET Framework 4:
.br
amd64: https://download.microsoft.com/download/A/6/A/A6AC035D-DA3F-4F0C-ADA4-37C8E5D34E3D/setup/WinSDKDebuggingTools_amd64/dbg_amd64.msi
.br
ia64: https://download.microsoft.com/download/A/6/A/A6AC035D-DA3F-4F0C-ADA4-37C8E5D34E3D/setup/WinSDKDebuggingTools_ia64/dbg_ia64.msi
.br
x86: https://download.microsoft.com/download/A/6/A/A6AC035D-DA3F-4F0C-ADA4-37C8E5D34E3D/setup/WinSDKDebuggingTools/dbg_x86.msi
.IP
Archived download links of previous WinDbg versions:
.br
https://web.archive.org/web/20110221133326/https://www.microsoft.com/whdc/devtools/debugging/installx86.mspx
.br
https://web.archive.org/web/20110214012715/https://www.microsoft.com/whdc/devtools/debugging/install64bit.mspx
.TP
.B aos-expansion
Access method used on PowerPC Amiga running OS4+. Access is made through Expansion.library. It offers read and write access to configuration space.

.SH PARAMETERS

.PP
The library is controlled by several parameters. They should have sensible default
values, but in case you want to do something unusual (or even something weird),
you can override them (see the \fB-O\fP switch of \fIlspci\fP).

.SS Parameters of specific access methods

.TP
.B dump.name
Name of the bus dump file to read from.
.TP
.B fbsd.path
Path to the FreeBSD PCI device.
.TP
.B nbsd.path
Path to the NetBSD PCI device.
.TP
.B obsd.path
Path to the OpenBSD PCI device.
.TP
.B proc.path
Path to the procfs bus tree.
.TP
.B sysfs.path
Path to the sysfs device tree.
.TP
.B devmem.path
Path to the /dev/mem device or path to the \\Device\\PhysicalMemory NT section
or name of the platform specific physical address access method. Generally on
POSIX systems it is path to memory device and on Windows systems it is path to
memory NT section. Additionally on 32-bit Windows systems are recognized also
platform methods: \fIvxdcall\fP, \fIw32skrnl\fP. On DOS/DJGPP systems are
recognized only platform methods: \fIauto\fP, \fIdevmap\fP, \fIphysmap\fP.
DJGPP's \fIdevmap\fP method uses DPMI 1.0 functions 0508H (Map Device in Memory
Block) and 0509H (Map Conventional Memory in Memory Block). DJGPP's \fIphysmap\fP
method uses DPMI 0.9 function 0800H (Physical Address Mapping). DJGPP's \fIauto\fP
parameter automatically chooses one of the mentioned method supported by the system.
.TP
.B mmio-conf1.addrs
Physical addresses of memory-mapped I/O ports for Intel configuration mechanism 1.
CF8 (address) and CFC (data) I/O port addresses are separated by slash and
multiple addresses for different PCI domains are separated by commas.
Format: 0xaddr1/0xdata1,0xaddr2/0xdata2,...
.TP
.B mmio-conf1-ext.addrs
Physical addresses of memory-mapped I/O ports for Extended PCIe Intel configuration mechanism 1.
It has same format as
.B mmio-conf1.addrs
parameter.
.TP
.B ecam.addrs
Physical addresses of PCIe ECAM mappings. Each mapping must contains first PCI
bus number and physical address where mapping starts. And then it may contain
the length of the mapping, the last PCI bus number and PCI domain number. When
the last PCI bus number is not provided then it is calculated from the length
of the mapping or it is assumed 0xff. When length of the mapping is provided
then it is calculated from the last PCI bus number. And when PCI domain is not
provided then 0x0 is assumed. All numbers must be supplied in hexadecimal form
(leading prefix 0x is not required). Multiple mappings are separated by commas.
Format: [domain:]start_bus[-end_bus]:start_addr[+length],...
.TP
.B ecam.acpimcfg
Path to the ACPI MCFG table. Processed by the
.BR glob (3)
function, so it may contain wildcards (*).
.TP
.B ecam.efisystab
Path to the EFI system table.
.TP
.B ecam.bsd
When not set to 0 then use BSD kenv or sysctl to find ACPI MCFG table. Default
value is 1 on BSD systems.
.TP
.B ecam.x86bios
When not set to 0 then scan x86 BIOS memory for ACPI MCFG table. Default value
is 1 on x86 systems.
.TP
.B win32.cfgmethod
Config space access method to use with win32-cfgmgr32 on Windows systems. Value
.I auto
or an empty string selects the first access method which supports access
to the config space on Windows. Value
.I win32-cfgmgr32
or
.I none
only builds a read-only virtual emulated config space with information from the
Configuration Manager.

.SS Parameters for resolving of ID's via DNS
.TP
.B net.domain
DNS domain containing the ID database.
.TP
.B net.cache_name
Name of the file used for caching of resolved ID's. An initial
.B ~/
is expanded to the user's home directory.

.SS Parameters for resolving of ID's via UDEV's HWDB
.TP
.B hwdb.disable
Disable use of HWDB if set to a non-zero value.

.SH SEE ALSO

.BR lspci (8),
.BR setpci (8),
.BR pci.ids (5),
.BR update-pciids (8)

.SH AUTHOR
The PCI Utilities are maintained by Martin Mares <mj@ucw.cz>.
